I'm a mechanical engineering professor
at the University of Pennsylvania and my
favorite hobby is photography and as I
travel around the world I love taking
photographs like these so I can remember
all the beautiful and interesting things
that I've seen but what I can't do is
record and share how these objects feel
to touch and that's kind of surprising
because your sense of touch is really
important it's involved in every
physical interaction you do every day
every manipulation tasks anything you do
in the world and so the sense of touch
is actually pretty interesting it has
two main components the first is tactile
sensations things you feel in your skin
and the second is kinesthetic sensations
and this has to do with the position of
your body and how it's moving and the
forces you encounter and you're really
good at incorporating both of these
types of sensations together to
understand the physical interactions you
have with the world and understand as
you touch a surface is it a rock is it a
cat is it a bunny what is it and so as
an engineer I'm really fascinated and I
have a lot of respect for how good
people are with their hands and I'm
intrigued and curious about whether we
could make technology better by doing a
better job at leveraging the human
capability with the sense of touch can i
improve the interfaces to computers and
machines by letting you take advantage
of your hands and indeed I think we can
and that's at the core of a field called
haptics this is the area that I work in
it's all about interactive touch
technology and the way it works is is
you move your body through the world if
as an engineer I can make a system that
can measure that motion and then present
to use sensations over time the kind of
makes sense that match up with what you
might feel in the real world I can fool
you into thinking you're touching
something even though there's nothing
there all right so here are three
examples and these are all done from
research in my lab at Penn the first one
is all about that same problem that I
was showing how can we capture how
objects feel and recreate those
experiences so the way we solve this
problem is by creating a handheld tool
that has many different sensors inside
it has a force sensor so we can tell how
hard your push
it has motion-tracking so we can tell
exactly where you've moved it and has a
vibration sensor and accelerometer
inside that detects the shaking back and
forth of the tool that lets you know
that's a piece of canvas and not a piece
of silk or something else then we take
the data that we record from these
interactions here's ten seconds of data
you can see how the vibrations get
larger and smaller depending on how you
move then we make a mathematical model
of those relationships and program them
into a tablet computer so when you take
the stylus and go and touch the screen
that voice coil actuator in the white
bracket plays vibrations to give you the
illusion that you're touching the real
surface just like if you touch drag back
and forth on the real canvas we can
create very compelling illusions we can
do this for all kinds of surfaces and
it's really a lot of fun we call it
happed ography haptic photography and I
think it has potential benefits in all
sorts of areas like online shopping or
maybe interactive museum exhibits where
you're not really supposed to touch the
precious artifacts but you always want
to the second example that I want to
tell you about comes from a
collaboration I have with dr. Margaret
Maggio at the Penn dental school part of
her job is to teach dental students how
to tell where in a patient's mouth there
are cavities of course they look at
x-rays but a large part of this clinical
judgment comes from what they feel when
they touch your teeth with a dental
Explorer you guys have all had this
happen they go across what they're
feeling for is if the tooth is really
hard then it's healthy but if it's kind
of soft and sticky that's a signal that
the enamel is starting to decay and
these types of judgments are hard for a
new dental student to make they haven't
touched a lot of teeth yet and you want
them to learn this before they start
practicing on real human patients and so
what we do is we had an accelerometer on
to the dental Explorer and then we
record what dr. magiot feels as she
touches different extracted teeth then
we can play it back for you as a video
with a touch track so not just a sound
track but also a church track that you
can feel by holding that repeating tool
you can feel all the same things that
the dentist felt when they did the
recording and practice making judgments
so here's a sample one here's a teeth
tooth it looks kind of suspicious right
has like all those brown stains and you
might be thinking oh we should
definitely put a filling in this tooth
but truly if you pay attention to how it
feels all the surfaces of this tooth are
hard and healthy
so this patient does not need a filling
and these are exactly the kind of
judgments that doctors make every day
and I think this technology that we've
invented has a lot of potential for many
different things in medical training
because it's really simple and it does a
great job at recreating what people feel
through tools I think it could also
maybe help make games more interactive
and fun and more realistic in the
sensations that you feel the last
example I want to tell you about is
again about human movement so if any of
you have ever learned sports you know
how do you get good at something like
surfing you practice you practice some
more and more right making small
Corrections maybe getting some input
from a coach learning how to improve
your motions I think we could use
computers to help make that process more
efficient and more fun and so here for
example if I have six different arm
movements that I want you to learn you
come into my lab at Penn and try out our
system we use a Kinect to measure your
motions we show graphics on the screen
and then we also give you touch cues
haptic feedback on your arm delivered by
these haptic arm bands which have motors
inside and guide you as you move so we
put it together as you're trying to
track this motion if you deviate say
maybe your arm is a little too high we
turn on the motors that are right there
on their skin to let you know how you
should move down almost like a coach
gently guiding you and helping you
master these movements more quickly and
make more precise corrections we
developed this system for use in stroke
rehabilitation I think there are a lot
of applications like maybe dance
training or all sorts of sports training
as well and so now you know a little bit
about the field of haptics which I think
you're going to hear more about in the
coming years I've shown you three
examples and I just want to take a
moment to acknowledge all the great
students who work with me in my lab at
Penn and my collaborators they're a
great group and I also want to thank you
for your kind attention
you